---
title: "Introduction to Physics"
featured: true
weight: 2
layout: content
authornum: 1
prevcontenturl: ../../physics-I
nextcontenturl: ../1.2-metric-system-and-SI-prefixes
---



# Introduction
Have you ever wondered how a car can quickly overtake a bicycle, why a rainbow appears after a drizzle, how electricity is generated, or why oil floats when mixed with water? Humans, by nature, are inquisitive creatures. As a result, every speck and aspect of our existence tends to be questioned. But it is not just the questions that pique our curiosity; the solutions, after all, are far more intriguing, and that is what Physics is attempting to provide. Filipinos, for example, are superstitious people that give absurd explanations for even the most mundane events. 
>“Umuulan kahit tirik ang araw dahil may kinakasal na kalbo,” 
>or
>“Nagkakasakit dahit na engkanto,” 

These statements are just a few of the things we hear from the elderly. However, because of advances in science and technology as well as extensive research, what was formerly thought to be magical and mysterious may now be rationally justified. All of this is feasible thanks to science and mathematics, and more importantly, physics. 

Physics explains such occurrences by combining mathematics with scientific data and concepts. This is the beauty of physics: it provides solutions and explanations to poorly understood concepts. And, despite the large amount of data that has been verified, there is still a lot to learn. After all, Physics, despite it existing for some generations, is still young at age.

As we tackle this course, we will do everything we can to help you appreciate physics and how you may apply it to your everyday life from a scientific standpoint. 

But, before we can examine the foundations of physics, we must first grasp its fundamental notions. And it all starts with adequately quantifying the dimensions.





<!-- 

| Dimension |      SI       |       CGS       |     BE     |
| --------- |:-------------:|:---------------:|:----------:|
| Length    |   Meter (m)   | Centimeter (cm) | Foot (ft)  |
| Mass      | Kilogram (kg) |    Gram (g)     | Slug (sl)  |
| Time      |  Second (s)   |   Second (s)    | Second (s) |
|           |               |                 |            |

 -->


