---
title: "Introduction and History of Electricity"
prevcontenturl: ../../physics-II
nextcontenturl: ../20.2-atoms-and-electric-charge
---




Have you ever thought about how electricity impacts practically every area of our lives? 

From the basic mechanisms of our bodies to the power it supplies every device and equipment that we could think of - electricity is in and all around us, providing us with convenience, health, and abundance. 

The term electricity is widely known. Without electricity, it is nearly impossible to live comfortably in this world. Our way of life is so reliant on it that when the electricity goes out, our world tends to "stop." Electricity is used in various applications, including lighting, ventilation, communication, entertainment, and transportation. 

Electricity is even employed by the cells of our body, enabling neurons to rapidly fire, our hearts to beat, and our muscles to contract. Likewise, practically all our essential necessities are either manufactured or sustained by electricity-powered machinery in this modern day. Hence, without electricity, our lives would be fundamentally different and a whole lot harder. 

And as we acknowledge the tremendous difference electricity makes, it is also essential that we understand electricity from its history and how it was discovered.






# Brief History of Electricity

At 600 B.C., the ancient Greeks already have an idea of what electricity is. 

They discovered that when amber is rubbed against wool, the amber attracts other items. This phenomenon can also be observed while rubbing a balloon on dry hair, which attracts the hair to the balloon. At this time, we can logically conclude that the amber and balloon have been charged, a phenomenon known as the "Triboelectric Effect." 


If a glass rod is brushed with silk, we intuitively know what would happen; the two objects will attract one another. However, if another glass rod is charged and placed next to the first, the two rods will **repel** one another. 

The same experiment can also be performed by using a plastic rod and fur; the same outcome will occur. However, when the glass and plastic rods are placed side by side, the two **attract each other**. 


And this experiment establishes the existence of **two distinct types of charges**, which we refer to as positive and negative charges to this day. The positive charge is generated by glass and silk; the negative charge is generated by plastic and fur. 


With these experiments, we could now predict how charges would react to each other. 

Like charges repel, and opposite charges attract ($\fref{1}$).




{% include images.html 
    url= "phys2/phys2-20.1.1.png" 
    size= "600px"
    caption = "Figure 1: Charges exhibit either attraction or repulsion depending on their sign."
%}




